.TH SYSTEMD.CRON 7 "" "systemd-cron unknown version" systemd.cron

.SH NAME
systemd.cron - systemd cron units

.SH SYNOPSIS
cron.target, cron-boot.timer, cron-hourly.timer, cron-daily.timer,
cron-weekly.timer, cron-monthly.timer, cron-boot.target, cron-hourly.target,
cron-daily.target, cron-weekly.target, cron-monthly.target,cron-boot.service,
cron-hourly.service, cron-daily.service, cron-weekly.service, cron-monthly.service

.SH DESCRIPTION
These units provide minimal cron daemon functionality by running scripts in
cron directories.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/etc/cron.boot
Directory for scripts to be executed on boot.

.TP
.I /usr/local/etc/cron.hourly
Directory for scripts to be executed every hour.

.TP
.I /usr/local/etc/cron.daily
Directory for scripts to be executed every day.

.TP
.I /usr/local/etc/cron.weekly
Directory for scripts to be executed every week.

.TP
.I /usr/local/etc/cron.monthly
Directory for scripts to be executed every month.

.SH SYSTEM UNITS
.TP
cron.target
The target unit which starts the others. This should be enabled and started to
use cron functionality.

.TP
cron-\fIschedule\fR.timer
The timer units which pull the cron-\fIschedule\fR.target units at the
appropriate time. Started and stopped by the cron.target unit. These units
cannot be controlled manually.

.TP
cron-\fIschedule\fR.target
The targets invoke all service units wanted by them, including cron-\fIschedule\fR.service.

.TP
cron-\fIschedule\fR.service
The service units which run scripts in the cron directories. Started and
stopped by the cron-\fIschedule\fR.target units. These units cannot be
controlled manually. You can use \fBjournalctl\fR(1) to view the output of
scripts run from these units.

.SH LIMITATIONS
These units are \fInot\fR a drop-in replacement for a cron daemon. They only
provide limited cron capabilites. For example user-defined crontabs are not (yet) supported.
Do \fInot\fR use with a cron daemon, otherwise scripts may be executed multiple times.

.SH EXAMPLES

.IP "Start cron units"
.SB # systemctl start cron.target

.IP "Start cron units on boot"
.SB # systemctl enable cron.target

.IP "View script output"
.SB # journalctl -u cron-boot
.br
.SB # journalctl -u cron-hourly
.br
.SB # journalctl -u cron-daily
.br
.SB # journalctl -u cron-weekly
.br
.SB # journalctl -u cron-monthly

.IP "Example service file executed every hour"
.SB [Unit]
.br
.SB Description=Update the man db
.br
.br
.SB [Service]
.br
.SB Nice=19
.br
.SB IOSchedulingClass=2
.br
.SB IOSchedulingPriority=7
.br
.SB ExecStart=/usr/bin/mandb --quiet
.br
.br
.SB [Install]
.br
.SB WantedBy=cron-hourly.target

.SH NOTES
.nr step 1 1
.IP \n[step]. 3
The exact times scripts are executed is determined by the values of the special
calendar events \fIhourly\fR, \fIdaily\fR, \fIweekly\fR, and \fImonthly\fR
defined by \fBsystemd.time\fR(7).
.IP \n+[step].
\fBrun-parts\fR(8) is used to run scripts. Scripts must be executable by
\fIroot\fR to run.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR systemd (1),
.BR systemd.unit (5),
.BR systemd.service (5),
.BR systemd.target (5),
.BR systemd.timer (5),
.BR systemd.time (7),
.BR run-parts (8)

